content/claude-code-skills.md, before:

---
title: "Claude Code Skills"
type: article
url: "https://code.claude.com/docs/en/skills"
tags:
  - claude-code
  - ai-agents
  - developer-experience
  - ai-tools
authors:
  - anthropic
summary: "Official documentation on Skills—markdown files that extend Claude Code with specialized knowledge and workflows, triggered automatically based on semantic matching."
date: 2026-01-03
---

Skills are markdown files that teach Claude how to do something specific. Unlike slash commands requiring explicit invocation, Skills activate automatically when Claude determines a request matches the Skill's description.

## Key Concepts

**Automatic Triggering**: Claude loads only Skill names and descriptions at startup. When a request semantically matches a description, Claude asks permission, then loads the full `SKILL.md` content.

**Storage Locations**:
- `~/.claude/skills/` — Personal (all projects)
- `.claude/skills/` — Project (shared with team)
- Plugin directory — Bundled with plugins
- Enterprise managed settings — Organization-wide

Precedence flows top-to-bottom: Enterprise wins over Personal wins over Project wins over Plugin.

## Creating a Skill

Minimum structure:

```text
my-skill/
└── SKILL.md
```

The `SKILL.md` file requires YAML frontmatter with `name` and `description`:

```yaml
---
name: my-skill
description: What this does and when to use it. Include trigger keywords.
allowed-tools: Read, Grep, Glob
---

# My Skill

Instructions for Claude go here.
```

### Metadata Fields

| Field | Required | Purpose |
|-------|----------|---------|
| `name` | Yes | Lowercase, hyphens only, max 64 chars |
| `description` | Yes | Max 1024 chars. Include trigger keywords users would say |
| `allowed-tools` | No | Restrict Claude to specific tools without permission prompts |
| `model` | No | Specific Claude model for this Skill |

## Progressive Disclosure

Keep `SKILL.md` under 500 lines. Offload details to reference files:

```text
pdf-processing/
├── SKILL.md           # Overview and navigation
├── FORMS.md           # Form-filling details
├── REFERENCE.md       # API documentation
└── scripts/
    └── fill_form.py   # Executes without loading into context
```

Scripts in the `scripts/` directory execute with zero context cost—their code never loads into Claude's context window.

## Skills vs Other Options

| Option | Trigger | Use Case |
|--------|---------|----------|
| Skills | Auto (semantic) | Specialized knowledge |
| Slash Commands | Manual (`/cmd`) | Reusable prompts |
| CLAUDE.md | Always loaded | Project-wide instructions |
| Subagents | Delegated | Isolated context with own tools |
| Hooks | Event-driven | Scripts on tool events |
| MCP Servers | Tool calls | External integrations |

Use Skills for guidance that should apply automatically. Use subagents when isolation matters.

## Related

See also [[understanding-claude-code-full-stack-mcp-skills-subagents-hooks]] for a broader view of Claude Code's extensibility layers.

Commit message:

docs(content): add notes and update skill documentation
- Add three new content notes: Chainsaw Man Reze Arc, AI slop detection, fitness functions
- Update ai-engineering book rating to 10
- Update claude-code-skills with 2.1 features and connections
- Streamline adding-notes skill by extracting MOC workflow to reference doc

content/claude-code-skills.md, after:

---
title: "Claude Code Skills"
type: article
url: "https://code.claude.com/docs/en/skills"
tags:
  - claude-code
  - ai-agents
  - developer-experience
  - ai-tools
authors:
  - anthropic
summary: "Official documentation on Skills—markdown files that extend Claude Code with specialized knowledge and workflows, triggered automatically based on semantic matching."
date: 2026-01-11
---

Skills are markdown files that teach Claude how to do something specific. Unlike slash commands requiring explicit invocation, Skills activate automatically when Claude determines a request matches the Skill's description.

## Key Concepts

**Automatic Triggering**: Claude loads only Skill names and descriptions at startup. When a request semantically matches a description, Claude asks permission, then loads the full `SKILL.md` content.

**Storage Locations**:
- `~/.claude/skills/` — Personal (all projects)
- `.claude/skills/` — Project (shared with team)
- Plugin directory — Bundled with plugins
- Enterprise managed settings — Organization-wide

Precedence flows top-to-bottom: Enterprise wins over Personal wins over Project wins over Plugin.

## Creating a Skill

Minimum structure:

```text
my-skill/
└── SKILL.md
```

The `SKILL.md` file requires YAML frontmatter with `name` and `description`:

```yaml
---
name: my-skill
description: What this does and when to use it. Include trigger keywords.
allowed-tools: Read, Grep, Glob
---

# My Skill

Instructions for Claude go here.
```

### Metadata Fields

| Field | Required | Purpose |
|-------|----------|---------|
| `name` | Yes | Lowercase, hyphens only, max 64 chars |
| `description` | Yes | Max 1024 chars. Include trigger keywords users would say |
| `allowed-tools` | No | Restrict Claude to specific tools without permission prompts |
| `model` | No | Specific Claude model for this Skill |

## Progressive Disclosure

Keep `SKILL.md` under 500 lines. Offload details to reference files:

```text
pdf-processing/
├── SKILL.md           # Overview and navigation
├── FORMS.md           # Form-filling details
├── REFERENCE.md       # API documentation
└── scripts/
    └── fill_form.py   # Executes without loading into context
```

Scripts in the `scripts/` directory execute with zero context cost—their code never loads into Claude's context window.

## Skills vs Other Options

| Option | Trigger | Use Case |
|--------|---------|----------|
| Skills | Auto (semantic) | Specialized knowledge |
| Slash Commands | Manual (`/cmd`) | Reusable prompts |
| CLAUDE.md | Always loaded | Project-wide instructions |
| Subagents | Delegated | Isolated context with own tools |
| Hooks | Event-driven | Scripts on tool events |
| MCP Servers | Tool calls | External integrations |

Use Skills for guidance that should apply automatically. Use subagents when isolation matters.

## New in 2.1 (January 2026)

Claude Code 2.1 brought major skill improvements:

- **Hot-reload**: Skills created or modified in `~/.claude/skills` or `.claude/skills` are immediately available without restarting the session
- **Forked context**: Run skills in isolated sub-agent context using `context: fork` in frontmatter
- **Agent specification**: New `agent` field to specify agent type for execution
- **YAML-style allowed-tools**: Cleaner declarations using list syntax in frontmatter
- **Progress display**: Skills show tool uses as they happen during execution
- **Scoped hooks**: Hooks for `PreToolUse`, `PostToolUse`, and `Stop` events, enabling fine-grained state management and audit logging

## Connections

- [[understanding-claude-code-full-stack-mcp-skills-subagents-hooks]] - Broader view of Claude Code's extensibility layers including skills, subagents, and hooks
- [[claude-code-2-1-new-update-is-huge]] - Coverage of the 2.1 release that introduced these skill improvements
