content/evergreen-notes.md, before:

---
title: "Evergreen Notes"
type: evergreen
url: "https://notes.andymatuschak.org/Evergreen_notes"
tags:
  - productivity
  - learning
  - knowledge-management
authors:
  - andy-matuschak
summary: "A note-taking methodology where notes are written to evolve and accumulate insight over time, emphasizing atomic structure, concept orientation, and dense linking."
notes: ""
date: 2026-01-01
---

Evergreen notes are written and organized to evolve, contribute, and accumulate over time across projects. Unlike transient notes, they're designed to develop lasting insight rather than merely capture information.

## Key Principles

1. **Atomic** — Each note covers a single concept, making it self-contained and reusable
2. **Concept-oriented** — Organize by idea rather than by source (author, book, project)
3. **Densely linked** — Create rich connections between related notes
4. **Associative over hierarchical** — Prefer emergent structure through links rather than rigid taxonomies
5. **Write for yourself** — Disregard external audience; focus on personal understanding

## Why It Matters

Better note-taking means better thinking. The practice moves beyond passive collection toward active knowledge synthesis. Notes become a thinking environment, not just storage.

## Implementation

- **Reading inbox** — Capture references for later processing
- **Writing inbox** — Hold transient thoughts until they mature
- **Progressive refinement** — Notes evolve from rough to polished over time
- **Executable strategy** — Write about what you read to internalize it deeply

## Related Concepts

The methodology draws heavily from Niklas Luhmann's **Zettelkasten** (slip-box) system and integrates ideas from spaced repetition for memory retention.

Commit message:

feat: add rating system and new content notes
- Add 1-7 rating scale to content schema with BaseRatingDisplay component
- Display ratings in ContentCard and ContentHeader components
- Reorder books page: Want to Read before yearly sections
- Add new notes: evolutionary architectures, refactoring, evergreen notes,
  Obsidian usage, optimism bias, context window problem, Keynes essay
- Add author profiles: Martin Fowler, Neal Ford, Patrick Kua,
  Rebecca Parsons, Steph Ango, Tali Sharot, Varin Nair, John Keynes
- Enhance local-first-software with key insights and rating
- Document tag conventions and rating system in CLAUDE.md

content/evergreen-notes.md, after:

---
title: "Evergreen notes"
type: article
url: "https://stephango.com/evergreen-notes"
tags:
  - knowledge-management
  - note-taking
  - thinking
authors:
  - steph-ango
summary: "Evergreen notes decompose complex ideas into atomic, titled concepts that become objects you can manipulate, combine, and stack—without holding them all in your head."
date: 2026-01-03
---

Evergreen notes transform ideas into discrete objects. Each note captures one concept with a concise, memorable title: "A company is a superorganism," "All input is error," "Writing is telepathy."

## The Core Insight

By turning ideas into objects you can manipulate them, combine them, stack them. You don't need to hold them all in your head at the same time.

This reframing matters. Notes become building blocks rather than archives. The note "Creativity is combinatory uniqueness" can derive from "Everything is a remix"—ideas compound through connection.

## What Makes a Note Evergreen

**Atomic scope.** One idea per note. The title alone should convey the concept.

**Concept-oriented.** Notes capture ideas you find interesting, not necessarily ones you endorse. They're objects for thinking with, not positions to defend.

**Accumulating value.** Unlike fleeting captures, evergreen notes grow richer as you link them to new contexts and refine their expression.

## Origins

[[andy-matuschak]] coined the term "evergreen notes" to describe this style of knowledge work. The approach shares DNA with the Zettelkasten method detailed in [[how-to-take-smart-notes]].

## Related

This philosophy underpins [[how-i-use-obsidian]], where Steph Ango applies these principles to his personal note-taking system. Both emphasize emergent structure through linking over imposed hierarchies—ideas explored further in [[building-a-second-brain-and-zettelkasten]].
