docs/nuxt-content-gotchas.md, before:

# Nuxt Content v3 Gotchas

Common pitfalls and non-obvious behaviors when working with @nuxt/content v3.

## Minimark Format

Body content uses array format `[tag, props, ...children]`, NOT object format `{ tag, props, children }`.

**Body wrapper structure**: When querying body content, it returns:

```typescript
{ type: 'root', children: [...nodes] }
```

Note: Some older code/docs reference `{ type: 'minimark', value: [...] }` - this is outdated. Always check for `children` first when extracting links from body content.

## Querying Body Content

Must explicitly `.select('body')` - body is not included by default in queries.

## Search Section IDs

Returns IDs with leading slash (`/slug#section`). Don't add another slash when constructing URLs.

## Auto-imports in Composables

`useAsyncData` and `queryCollection` must be explicitly imported from `#imports` in composable files, or typecheck fails:

```typescript
import { useAsyncData, queryCollection } from '#imports'
```

## Page Collection Queries: Use `stem` Not `slug`

The `slug` field doesn't exist in page-type collections. Use `stem` (file path without extension) instead:

```typescript
// ✗ Fails: "no such column: slug"
queryCollection('content').select('slug', 'title', ...).all()

// ✓ Works
queryCollection('content').select('stem', 'title', ...).all()
```

Note: `data`-type collections (like `authors`) can define `slug` in their schema and query it normally.

## Deriving Types from Generated Collection Types

Nuxt Content generates TypeScript interfaces from your Zod schemas (e.g., `ContentCollectionItem` from the `content` collection). Import these from `@nuxt/content` to derive types rather than duplicating them:

```typescript
import type { ContentCollectionItem, NewslettersCollectionItem } from '@nuxt/content'

// Derive types from generated collection types
export type ContentType = ContentCollectionItem['type']
export type ReadingStatus = NonNullable<ContentCollectionItem['readingStatus']>
export type NewsletterPlatform = NonNullable<NewslettersCollectionItem['platform']>
```

**Why this matters**: The Zod schema in `content.config.ts` is the single source of truth. Deriving types from the generated interfaces ensures they stay in sync automatically.

**Gotcha**: Don't import directly from `content.config.ts` in tests—it triggers Nuxt Content module initialization and fails. Instead, create a constants file that imports from `@nuxt/content`.

**Validating runtime arrays**: Use `satisfies` to catch drift between arrays and the schema:

```typescript
export const contentTypeValues = [
  'youtube', 'podcast', 'article', ...
] as const satisfies readonly ContentType[]
```

If the array contains a value not in the Zod schema, TypeScript will error.

## Excluding Directories from Collections

To exclude entire directories from a collection (e.g., local-only synced content like Readwise), add glob patterns to the `source.exclude` array in `content.config.ts`:

```typescript
// content.config.ts
const content = defineCollection({
  source: {
    include: '**/*.md',
    exclude: ['authors/**', 'pages/**', 'Readwise/**']
  },
  // ...
})
```

This prevents excluded content from being:
- Queried via `queryCollection()`
- Indexed for search
- Appearing in any collection-based views

**When to use**: Prefer collection-level exclusion over query-level filtering when you never want the content in that collection. It's cleaner and more performant.

## Testing Server Handlers with queryCollection

**Don't mock `@nuxt/content/server` internals.** Using `vi.mock('@nuxt/content/server')` is fragile and breaks when Nuxt Content updates.

**Pattern: Extract pure logic to `server/utils/`**

```typescript
// ✗ Fragile: Mocking queryCollection in tests
vi.mock('@nuxt/content/server', () => ({
  queryCollection: vi.fn().mockResolvedValue(fixtures)
}))
const { default: handler } = await import('../../server/api/graph.get')
```

```typescript
// ✓ Better: Extract pure logic, test without mocking
// server/utils/graph.ts
export function buildGraphFromContent(allContent: ContentItem[]): GraphData {
  const nodes = allContent.map(createNode)
  const edges = allContent.flatMap(item => extractEdges(item, existingNodes))
  return { nodes, edges }
}

// server/api/graph.get.ts - thin wrapper
export default defineEventHandler(async (event) => {
  const allContent = await queryCollection(event, 'content').all()
  return buildGraphFromContent(allContent)  // Pure function
})

// tests/unit/utils/graph.test.ts - no mocking needed!
describe('buildGraphFromContent', () => {
  it('creates edges from wiki-links', () => {
    const result = buildGraphFromContent(fixtures.linkedNotes)
    expect(result.edges).toHaveLength(1)
  })
})
```

**Why this works:**
- Pure functions in `server/utils/` are unit testable without any framework mocking
- Handler becomes a thin wrapper that only fetches data
- Tests don't break when Nuxt Content internals change
- For component tests that need API responses, use `registerEndpoint` from `@nuxt/test-utils/runtime` to mock at HTTP level

Commit message:

feat: add satisfies pattern for type-safe icon map and new content
- Use satisfies Record<ContentType, string> in BaseTypeIcon for
  exhaustive type checking when adding new content types
- Document the satisfies pattern in nuxt-content-gotchas.md
- Add refactoring article by Ron Jeffries
- Add advanced context engineering guide
- Add RepoMirror tool and author profiles

docs/nuxt-content-gotchas.md, after:

# Nuxt Content v3 Gotchas

Common pitfalls and non-obvious behaviors when working with @nuxt/content v3.

## Minimark Format

Body content uses array format `[tag, props, ...children]`, NOT object format `{ tag, props, children }`.

**Body wrapper structure**: When querying body content, it returns:

```typescript
{ type: 'root', children: [...nodes] }
```

Note: Some older code/docs reference `{ type: 'minimark', value: [...] }` - this is outdated. Always check for `children` first when extracting links from body content.

## Querying Body Content

Must explicitly `.select('body')` - body is not included by default in queries.

## Search Section IDs

Returns IDs with leading slash (`/slug#section`). Don't add another slash when constructing URLs.

## Auto-imports in Composables

`useAsyncData` and `queryCollection` must be explicitly imported from `#imports` in composable files, or typecheck fails:

```typescript
import { useAsyncData, queryCollection } from '#imports'
```

## Page Collection Queries: Use `stem` Not `slug`

The `slug` field doesn't exist in page-type collections. Use `stem` (file path without extension) instead:

```typescript
// ✗ Fails: "no such column: slug"
queryCollection('content').select('slug', 'title', ...).all()

// ✓ Works
queryCollection('content').select('stem', 'title', ...).all()
```

Note: `data`-type collections (like `authors`) can define `slug` in their schema and query it normally.

## Deriving Types from Generated Collection Types

Nuxt Content generates TypeScript interfaces from your Zod schemas (e.g., `ContentCollectionItem` from the `content` collection). Import these from `@nuxt/content` to derive types rather than duplicating them:

```typescript
import type { ContentCollectionItem, NewslettersCollectionItem } from '@nuxt/content'

// Derive types from generated collection types
export type ContentType = ContentCollectionItem['type']
export type ReadingStatus = NonNullable<ContentCollectionItem['readingStatus']>
export type NewsletterPlatform = NonNullable<NewslettersCollectionItem['platform']>
```

**Why this matters**: The Zod schema in `content.config.ts` is the single source of truth. Deriving types from the generated interfaces ensures they stay in sync automatically.

**Gotcha**: Don't import directly from `content.config.ts` in tests—it triggers Nuxt Content module initialization and fails. Instead, create a constants file that imports from `@nuxt/content`.

**Validating runtime arrays**: Use `satisfies` to catch drift between arrays and the schema:

```typescript
export const contentTypeValues = [
  'youtube', 'podcast', 'article', ...
] as const satisfies readonly ContentType[]
```

If the array contains a value not in the Zod schema, TypeScript will error.

**Enforcing exhaustive lookup tables**: Use `satisfies Record<Type, Value>` to ensure lookup objects cover all union members:

```typescript
// app/components/BaseTypeIcon.vue
const iconMap = {
  youtube: 'i-lucide-youtube',
  podcast: 'i-lucide-mic',
  article: 'i-lucide-file-text',
  // ... all types must be present
} satisfies Record<ContentType, string>
```

If a new content type is added to the Zod schema and the iconMap is missing it, TypeScript will error immediately. This pattern applies to any lookup table (icons, labels, colors, route mappings) that must stay in sync with a union type.

## Excluding Directories from Collections

To exclude entire directories from a collection (e.g., local-only synced content like Readwise), add glob patterns to the `source.exclude` array in `content.config.ts`:

```typescript
// content.config.ts
const content = defineCollection({
  source: {
    include: '**/*.md',
    exclude: ['authors/**', 'pages/**', 'Readwise/**']
  },
  // ...
})
```

This prevents excluded content from being:
- Queried via `queryCollection()`
- Indexed for search
- Appearing in any collection-based views

**When to use**: Prefer collection-level exclusion over query-level filtering when you never want the content in that collection. It's cleaner and more performant.

## Testing Server Handlers with queryCollection

**Don't mock `@nuxt/content/server` internals.** Using `vi.mock('@nuxt/content/server')` is fragile and breaks when Nuxt Content updates.

**Pattern: Extract pure logic to `server/utils/`**

```typescript
// ✗ Fragile: Mocking queryCollection in tests
vi.mock('@nuxt/content/server', () => ({
  queryCollection: vi.fn().mockResolvedValue(fixtures)
}))
const { default: handler } = await import('../../server/api/graph.get')
```

```typescript
// ✓ Better: Extract pure logic, test without mocking
// server/utils/graph.ts
export function buildGraphFromContent(allContent: ContentItem[]): GraphData {
  const nodes = allContent.map(createNode)
  const edges = allContent.flatMap(item => extractEdges(item, existingNodes))
  return { nodes, edges }
}

// server/api/graph.get.ts - thin wrapper
export default defineEventHandler(async (event) => {
  const allContent = await queryCollection(event, 'content').all()
  return buildGraphFromContent(allContent)  // Pure function
})

// tests/unit/utils/graph.test.ts - no mocking needed!
describe('buildGraphFromContent', () => {
  it('creates edges from wiki-links', () => {
    const result = buildGraphFromContent(fixtures.linkedNotes)
    expect(result.edges).toHaveLength(1)
  })
})
```

**Why this works:**
- Pure functions in `server/utils/` are unit testable without any framework mocking
- Handler becomes a thin wrapper that only fetches data
- Tests don't break when Nuxt Content internals change
- For component tests that need API responses, use `registerEndpoint` from `@nuxt/test-utils/runtime` to mock at HTTP level
